Object oriented programming is a programming concept that focuses on creation of objects rather than actions/functions and data rather than logic. It involves building programs using Objects and Classes.
General concepts in OOP - Object, class, Encapsulation, Inheritance, Polymorphism and Abstraction
Class is a blueprint for an object which contains the attributes/variables and methods defined for the object.
Inheritance is a method that allows code reusability when a class shares similar properties with another class.
Classes are just a logical definition while objects are physically represented data that have the properties and can perform methods.
Abstraction is the process of reducing complexity by hiding the internal implementation details of a program or process and showing only necessary information.
Encapsulation involves bundling of data and methods that operate on the data within a single unit. This is called an object in Java. The purpose of encapsulation is to hide sensitive data from the users. It involves making the attributes private and using getters and setters to access them.
Polymorphism allows the same functionality to give behave differently based on the object that called it. It involves overloading (data types) and overriding (modding the func).

Curly braces define the scope of the program. If after class header - scope of class
After method - scope of method
The main method is the first thing the program will run and the args variable name can actually be any name
Comments, class headers and method headers are not seen as Java statements
If any value on either side of a + is a string then it will concatenate and not add.
String literal values cannot normally span multiple lines
byte is also a primitive data type
float - single precision for floating point numbers while double is - double precision
Floating point literals are double by default so you have to put the F keyword after the literal to convert it to a float. Also dividing 2 int literals doesn't give an automatic float, you have to add F to them both to make them floats
Local vars can be declared and initialized on the same line
Primitive vars and Reference vars
Prim vars are vars that hold prim data types and these vars hold the memory location of the value stored in it and the value itself while reference vars or pointers only hold the address where the object is stored
Strings are the only object that can be assigned literal values i.e without having to use the new keyword althogh they can be created with the new keyword
String length is a method e.g myString.length()
After writing a do while loop, there should be a semi-colon after the condition.
For loops have initialisation, condition, and iteration
The for each syntax can only be used on arrays
Methods must be defined within a class. the keyword static on a method means that the method belongs to the class its contained in and not an instance (or object) of the class. Static can also be used on variables
In Java all the functions are called methods since theyre within class
Scope basically refers to the region where a variable was created.
Block Scope btw curly braces if-else block, Method Scope within a method. There's no global scope in Java

Variables defined in a class are called attributes
For methods, methods that have the static keyword can be accessed without having to create an object of the class while you need to create an object to use public methods

When calling a static method within the class it's defined, you dont have to use the class name first, but you have to do that if youre not inside the class. But good practise is to use the class name

Constructors are special method used to initialize objects. You can initialize the attributes of an object using constructors making it easier to put the values rather than using the dot syntax.
The parameter names for the constructor must differ from the objcets actual attributes tho. Just put an underscore before the attribute name
Construtors should not have return type
A better way could also be using the this keyword.

Always put data types for method parameters
Always use the class name when calling a static method

Access Modifiers:
Classes - public & default
Methods, attributes and constructor - public, private, default & protected 
public - accessible by all other Classes
private - accessible only within the class where it's defined
protected - accessible within the package and in its subclasses
default - accessible within the package

Non-Access Modifiers:
Classes - final & abstract
final - cannot be inherited by other classes
abstract - cannot be used to created objects can only be inherited

Methods, attributes and constructors
final - cannot be modified or overriden
static - belongs to the class and not objects
abstract - used only on methods and the body is not provided. Instead, the body is defined by the subclass. (class that inherits it)

The 'this' keyword is important in differentiating between the attributes of a class and it's method or constructor parameter when they have the same name.
The 'this' keyword cannot be accessed in static methods or constructors cus there might be no object to reference Kapeesh.
The this keyword refers to the object. You can use the attribute name directly in a method (not to set or initialise) if you haven't used any parameter that are the same as it's name

TODO - How to access classes between packages and that Linear algebra stuff